## Quick Starts

### About Quick Starts

Development for BNS JAVA Client SDK require the following prerequisite:

- An BNS Java Client SDK
- A machine running with Linux / MacOS / Windows 10 / Windows 11

Depending on your operating system, our SDK supports several development environments:

- Visual Studio Code (VSCode) : You need to install [Java Extension Pack](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vscjava.vscode-java-pack) for VSCode. This extension enables you to develop and execute our SDK in Linux, MacOS and Windows enviroments.

- Command Line Interface (CLI)

- IntelliJ IDEA

The quickstarts are intended to guide you through the steps to install package required to SDK, configure the settings for Sample Code, and check the ledgerinput result. Quick starts involved following steps:

<!-- no toc -->
1. [Download the BNS JAVA Client SDK](#1-download-the-sdk)
2. [Install packages required to BNS JAVA Client SDK](#2-install-packages-required-to-sdk)
3. [Configure setting for Sample Code](#3-configure-the-settings-for-sample-code)
4. [Run the Sample code](#4-run-the-sample-code)
5. [Check the result](#5-check-the-result)

Complete the quickstarts for each step, then you will be ready to run the tutorial and develop our SDK with your own applications.

### 1. Download the SDK

To download the code, you will need to install [git](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/set-up-git) (If not installed yet) and then type

```shell
> git clone https://github.com/itrustmachines/bns-java-client.git
```

### 2. Install packages required to SDK

Before you run the SDK, you need to install **Java** and **Maven**. If you haven't installed the **Java** and **Maven**:

- Please refer to [Java official website](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-downloads.html) to install or upgrade the Java

- Please refer to [Maven official website](https://maven.apache.org) to install or upgrade the Maven

### 3. Configure the settings for Sample Code

This configuration file is very important. Main program use this configuration file to initialize the BNS Java Client. Configuration file includes private key, blockchain address, Email setting ... etc.

Modifying the configuration file require the following prerequisites:

1. Create `settings.xml` in your `.m2` folder and copy following setting into the `settings.xml` file.

    ```xml
    <settings>
        <servers>
            <server>
                <id>kuro-nexus-releases</id>
                <username>guest</username>
                <password>guest</password>
            </server>
        </servers>
    </settings>
    ```

2. Private key: To make sure the reliability of your each data source, you need a unique private key to process digital signature for each data source. Please export you private key from your MetaMask account and keep your private key in safe place. Anyone with your private key can access your MetaMask account.

3. Rinkeby Blockchain Node URL: In order to obtain the On-Chain proof, we need to access to  blockchain node. Therefore, we use Infura service help us access the blockchain node. In ITM BNS, we use Rinkeby blockchain for our testing environment. To obtain the Rinkey blockchain node URL, please refer to [Infura tutorial](./infura_en.md).

4. ITM BNS Account: To use ITM BNS, You need to sign up to BNS, check `Sign Up` section in [BNS Tutorial](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PL9mBKnNjNC1K0XiH9EL65QljN6Agf4k42) or [BNS User Guide](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1s1hDdHplzrEmnAIaja-rXJpPPq7eGlC5/view?usp=sharing) for more instruction.

After finsihing the prerequisites, then you will be ready to modify the configuration file [sample.properties](../src/main/resources/sample.properties). Please check the configuration file and follow the instructions below.

```Java
/**
 * Please fill in the 128 bits (32 bytes) Hex encoded
 * private key which you exported from MetaMask.
 */ 
privateKey=

/** Please fill in the URL of BNS Server */
bnsServerUrl=https://azure-dev-membership.itm.monster:8088/
    
/** 
 * Please fill in the Rinkey Node URL which generated by Infura
 */
nodeUrl=https://rinkeby.infura.io/v3/{InfuraProjectId}

/**
 * Please fill in your Email which you sign up for BNS Service.
 */        
email=
        
/** BNS Java Client verify the receipt in the unit of page, you can change the verifyBatchSize to set how many page of receipt will BNS to verify. We will introuduce this setting in Tutorial document, you can keep this in default*/
verifyBatchSize=10

/** You can change the verifyDelaySec to set how many second delay for each verification. We will discuss this setting in Tutorial document, you can keep this in default*/
verifyDelaySec=1

/** When failed ledgerinput occured, SPO Client will request again. You can change the number to set how many second delay for each retry. We will discuss this setting in Tutorial document, you can keep this in default*/
retryDelaySec=5
```

### 4. Run the Sample Code

#### Command Line Interface

Move to itm-bns-sample folder
```shell
> cd bns-java-client/itm-bns-sample
```

Execute the program to start ledgerInput

```shell
> mvn clean package
> java -jar ./target/itm-bns-sample-1.1.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
```

**If your Maven version is greater than 3.8.1, it will block the external HTTP repo. Please follow the [solution](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67001968/how-to-disable-maven-blocking-external-http-repositores)** to solve your problem.

#### Visual Studio Code

1. Open Command Palette
2. Type Maven and choose `Maven : Execute Commands`
3. Choose itm-bns-sample project
4. Choose Custom and type `mvn clean package` to compile the code
5. Execute the `./target/itm-bns-sample-1.1.1-SNAPSHOT.jar`

#### Intellij IDEA

1. Open itm-spo-sdk-java with Maven Project
2. Click Maven Tool at right panel
3. Click execute maven goal
4. Type `mvn clean package` and press Enter to compile the code
5. right click `itm-bns-sample-1.1.1-SNAPSHOT.jar` and click run `itm-bns-sample-1.1.1-SNAPSHOT.jar`

### 5. Check the result

After executing the sample code. The BNS Java Client will start ledgerinput. You can check the ledgerinput result on BNS Website.

1. Visit [BNS Website](https://azure-dev-membership.itm.monster/)

2. Click the **Check Records** then you can check all of your ledgerinput records

3. To view the ledgerinput detail information, click **+** in legerinput records

4. After the BNS service clear your attestation. Your ledgerinput records **Attest status** will show **Success**.

5. If your **Attest status** is success, you can click **On-chain Proof** to view the proof on blockchain via blockchain browser or click **ITM Proof Token** to download the proof. The BNS server clear the attestation once a day. You will receive the email after BNS server clear your attestation.

6. After you download the **ITM Proof Token**, you can click the **Verification** to visit our verification service to verify the proof.

7. Click **Blockchain verification** in our verification service.

8. Upload the  **ITM Proof Token** your downloaded.

9. If Off-Chain proof is tempered-free, the Verify Result icon will become green, otherwise, it will be red.

----
Quickstarts is now complete. Next, learn how to build your own CMD.

## Next Steps

Next Page : [Build the CMD](./cmd_en.md)  
Last Page : [Home](../../README.md)